Several individuals and organizations have been involved in the development of the ‘Indian Food Composition Tables, 2017’ right from conception of the programme, infrastructure establishment, capacity building and execution. This herculean task could not have been possible without the immense support from all corners.

Particular acknowledgement is due to Dr. V. M. Katoch, Former Secretary, Department of Health Research & Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) who recognized the importance and the need for new Indian Food Composition Database and provided the required financial grant for implementing the programme. Special thanks to Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, Secretary, Department of Health Research & Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research for her constant support and encouragement in accomplishing the task.

Sincere thanks to Dr. B. Sesikeran, Former Director, National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) and Dr. G. S. Toteja, Scientist-G & Head, Nutrition, ICMR for facilitating the smooth operation of the project without which the project would not have seen the light of the day. Particular thanks to Late Dr. B. S. Narasinga Rao, former Director of NIN and Dr. Padam Singh former Adll. Director General, ICMR and all the Expert Committee Members for their invaluable scientific inputs which strengthened the programme.

The constant support and encouragement provided by Dr. Ute Ruth Charrondiere, INFOODS Coordinator, FAO, Rome is gratefully acknowledged. Special appreciation and thanks to Dr. Kailash Chandra, Director, ZSI., Dr. Rajkumar Rajan, Officer-in-charge, Mr. A. Anand Kumar and Mr. Shrini Vaasu from Marine Biological Regional Centre, Chennai for their tireless effort in taxonomical identification of all varieties of fish, shellfish and mollusc analyzed.

To the project scientists Dr. P. Ravindra Naik, Dr. Charles Dorni, Dr. Hyma Pardipur, Dr. B. Sreedhar, Dr. S. Muthuswami, Dr. V. S. S. Prasad, Dr. Smitha Mathews and all the project Technical and Supporting staff, who worked tirelessly with so much passion, a special acknowledgment of gratitude. The invaluable contribution of Mr. V. Satish Babu, Instrumentation Officer who kept all the big and small instruments in excellent condition, Technical Officers Mr. K. Mangthya, Mr. K. Subhash & Mrs. P. S. Prashanti, is gratefully acknowledged for their technical support.

The extraordinary support received from various quarters of the National Institute of Nutrition - Administration, Stores, Purchase, Accounts, Leave Section, Electrical, Plumbing and Supporting Staff, Scientific and Technical colleagues cannot be forgotten and it will go down into history as the new book ‘Indian Food Composition Tables, 2017’ is released.
