[[about_1937]]
Nutritional disorders were prominent public health concern in India during the early 20th century (Barry, 1900; Annual report of Government of India, 1905; Scott, 1916; Ernest, 1917). A general inclination was to pursue research that would elucidate the facts responsible for the prevalence of malnutrition in order to issue guidelines and deliver solutions for its prevention and control. In the year 1918, an enquiry headed by Sir Robert McCarrison was launched to investigate the prevalence of beriberi under the auspices of Indian Research Fund Association (IRFA), now Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Subsequently, the research broadened to a ‘deficiency disease enquiry’ and ultimately transformed into a fully functional research organization named Nutrition Research Laboratories (NRL) housed at the Pasteur Institute, Coonor, Nilgiri, India (Narasinga Rao, 2005a).

One of the major public health concerns that NRL, Coonor started looking into was the protein energy malnutrition (PEM). Incipient reports on nutrient evaluations in India, suggested an emphasis on protein content and quality of Indian foods and diets (Lewis, 1880; McNamara, 1906; McCay, 1910; McCay, 1911; McCay, 1912; Passmore, 1948). Prevalence of iron deficiency anemia (IDA) among infants and children of India was also widely recognized. However, comprehensive and conclusive epidemiological studies on nutritional deficiencies in India were scarce. Aykroyd and Rajagopal (1936) reported that the weight for height of Indian children was below that of American children and almost 14% of them showed signs of deficiency diseases. Nutrient deficiency diseases such as beriberi, keratomalacia, night blindness, rickets, osteomalacia, dental caries, pellagra, pregnancy anaemia and lathyrism were of the major concern (McCarrison, 1932). In addition, incidence of goiter due to iodine deficiency was also an issue of concern affecting the Indian population in many regions of the country.

Insufficient consumption of milk, eggs and meat was found to be the cause of inadequate supply of protein, minerals such as calcium and fat soluble vitamin A among certain sections of Indian populations (McCarrison, 1925). Prevalence of malnutrition due to inadequate nutrient intake was observed throughout the country.The cause of beriberi in India was found to be low dietary supply of vitamin B either from rice or other food grains (McCarrison & Norris, 1924). Aykroyd (1932) found that milled parboiled rice contained considerably higher amount of vitamin B1 as compared to raw milled rice. Meanwhile, McCarrison (1936) established that populations who preferred consuming raw milled rice over parboiled milled rice were more prone to beriberi.


[[about_1951]]
Between 1938 and 1951, there was a notable transition in the Indian nutrition scenario. Among tropical regions, India contributed substantially in the field of nutrition (Nicholls, 1945). The incidence of pellagra was noticed and the role of niacin in its cure was successfully demonstrated in India (Raman, 1940; Aykroyd & Swaminathan, 1940). The agricultural practices in India also underwent modifications with concomitant increase in the crop yields. However, the basic diet of individuals remained inadequate, devoid of animal fats and proteins, due to poor economic conditions (Day, 1944). The translation of nutrition research into sustained public health was hindered by obstacles of weak economy, ignorance and poverty (Aykroyd, 1941). Other deficiency diseases such as maternal anaemia, infant beriberi and osteomalacia continued to be rampant. Sustained nutritional issues prompted the revision of Indian FCT resulting in the publication of fourth edition of the Health Bulletin No. 23 by Aykroyd, Patwardhan, and Ranganathan (1951).


